Documentation: Update contributing.md to better describe the issue and PR process (#11057)
endless-sky/endless-sky: docs/CONTRIBUTING.md

### Posting issues

The [issues page](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/issues) on GitHub is for tracking bugs and feature requests. When posting a new issue, please:

* Check to make sure it is not a duplicate of an existing issue.
* Create a separate "issue" for each bug you are reporting and each feature you are requesting.
* Choose the correct issue template and fill it out to the best of your ability.
* Do not use the issues page for things other than what match the provided issue templates. Use the [discussions page](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/discussions) instead. Examples of what the discussion pages would be used for include topics that are not looking for a resolution (as the point of an issue is to have it be resolved) or topics that are extremely broad and not befitting of an issue because there is no single resolution to the topic.

If requesting a new feature, first ask yourself: will this make the game more fun or interesting within the existing scope of the game? Remember that this is not a simulator game; while you may find such games fun or interesting, that is not the type of game that Endless Sky is trying to be.

### Closing issues

> If you believe your issue has been resolved, you can close the issue yourself. If your issue gets closed because a PR was merged, and you are not satisfied, please do not reopen your issue. Please open a new issue and explain the gap that you feel still needs to be addressed.

Reviewer: If you don't have access to a repository, and someone else closes your issue, you can't reopen it.

Reviewer: So maybe change it to something more like this:
```suggestion
If you believe your issue has been resolved, you can close the issue yourself. If your issue gets closed because a PR was merged, and you are not satisfied, please do not comment on the old issue. Open a new issue and explain the gap that you feel still needs to be addressed.
```

## Pull requests

### Posting pull requests

If you are posting a pull request, please:

> * Find if your pull request solves an existing issue. Note that just because an issue is open does not guarantee that it is something we will accept, as the number of issues we receive means that not all of them have been thoroughly discussed, and there may be open issues for features that we decide we do not want.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Check if your pull request solves an existing issue. Note that just because an issue is open does not guarantee that it is something we will accept, as the number of issues we receive means that not all of them have been thoroughly discussed, and there may be open issues for features that we decide we do not want.
```

* Do not combine multiple unrelated changes.
* Check the diff and make sure the pull request does not contain unintended changes.
* If changing the C++ code, follow the [coding standard](https://endless-sky.github.io/styleguide/styleguide.xml).
* Fill out the pull request template to the best of your ability. GitHub's pull request template features are not as thorough as issue templates. You are able to delete the entire pull request template and put in whatever you want; please do not do this. The purpose of the pull request template is to help facilitate the review, approval, and merging of pull requests.

> * If adding new content to the game (eg. new ships, outfits, artwork, storylines, etc.) please take a look at the [Style Goals](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/wiki/StyleGoals) and [Quality Checklist](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/wiki/QualityChecklist) sections of our wiki to make sure that your content fits with Endless Sky's writing and art style.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If adding new content to the game (e.g. new ships, outfits, artwork, storylines, etc.) please take a look at the [Style Goals](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/wiki/StyleGoals) and [Quality Checklist](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/wiki/QualityChecklist) sections of our wiki to make sure that your content fits with Endless Sky's writing and art style.
```

> If proposing major changes to the game through your pull request, start by posting an issue and discussing the best way to implement it. Often the first strategy that occurs to you will not be the cleanest or most effective way to implement a new feature.

Reviewer: Depending on what these major changes are, a discussion might be better.
```suggestion
If proposing major changes to the game through your pull request, start by posting an issue or discussion and discussing the best way to implement it. Often the first strategy that occurs to you will not be the cleanest or most effective way to implement a new feature.
```

The type of pull request you open will also influence when it is eligible to be merged. We release updates alternating between "stable" and "unstable" versions.

* During the development of an unstable release, any type of pull request is up for merging. Unstable releases are typically developed over the course of three to four months and with odd version numbers (e.g. v0.10.1).

> * During the development of a stable release, we typically only accept bug fixes and minor content tweaks. Stable releases are typically developed over the course of two to six weeks and with even version numbers (e.g. v0.10.2).

Reviewer: Isn't it generally four weeks now?

Author: I think we want to give a range for the release time in case something comes up during release and it needs to be delayed a bit (major game-breaking bug needs to be fixed, developers aren't available, etc.)

Reviewer 2: What about the leap unstable releases? (When first updating to a major version like v0.10.0)

Author: That was an exception to our release cycle and not something we plan to do again.

> If you have opened a new feature pull request during a stable release development cycle, it is unlikely to be merged until the stable release is finished. Similarly, if you open a large pull request toward the end of an unstable release, it will likely have to wait until the next unstable release development cycle has begun before people will begin reviewing it and it has a chance to be merged. This is because the time it would take to appropriately review the pull request is longer than the time until the next release, and Developers and Reviewers near the end of a release cycle are often focused on a priority list determined in advance closer to the release date.

Reviewer 3: Added a section on reviewing PRs since that's another large area for people to contribute. If we don't think the contributing file is the right place to add info on PR reviews that's fine as well, but I think we should have reviewer resources linked somewhere for newer contributors.

@mOctave wrote a [superb set of tips for reviewers](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/discussions/10358) last year, so I've shamelessly linked it here and added a slightly condensed version to this doc. Definitely want any thoughts or tweaks since this is entirely your work. 

```suggestion
If you have opened a new feature pull request during a stable release development cycle, it is unlikely to be merged until the stable release is finished. Similarly, if you open a large pull request toward the end of an unstable release, it will likely have to wait until the next unstable release development cycle has begun before people will begin reviewing it and it has a chance to be merged. This is because the time it would take to appropriately review the pull request is longer than the time until the next release, and Developers and Reviewers near the end of a release cycle are often focused on a priority list determined in advance closer to the release date.

### Reviewing a pull request

Reviewing pull requests is an important part of maintaining Endless Sky and the main way that new content is ultimately added to the game. Your feedback helps contributors improve their work and ensures that new content is the best it can be. [This discussion](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/discussions/10358) covers some great tips for new reviewers.

* Always read the PR description. Read the whole thing, and you have a better chance of avoiding making mistakes in your review because you didn't have the background.

* Don't do reviews as a way to calm down. Reviewing others work can be calming, but doing reviews when stressed can also lead you to overreact to relatively small changes. Even if you don't, your reviews will probably be worse than usual.

* Use the "request changes" button sparingly, or not at all. In most cases, leaving comments with suggested changes is enough. Developers typically don’t merge PRs with unresolved comments, so there's usually no need to use "suggest changes."

* Don't review draft PRs. Draft PRs are still a work in progress. Any feedback you give is likely to be outdated by the time the PR is ready for review, leading to unwanted notifications and overwritten reviews.

* If you keep making the same correction, check it. The internet is great for searching up weird grammar and punctuation rules, especially when it comes to American vs British English. ES' source files are great for examining existing precedents within the game itself.

* Review comments for clarity, not conventions. Comments in data or code files are mainly read by contributors to the repo and are meant to be understood, not grammatically flawless. If you don't understand a comment, by all means suggest a change to it. But if the meaning's clear, there's no need to nitpick small style issues or better yet, remind the PR author in a single summary comment rather than commenting on every instance.

* Partial reviews are still helpful. You may not be able to review every one of the dozens of files in a large PR. But, you can still look through one or two files and make a couple of suggestions. Pretty much everyone involved will appreciate it, including the final player. 

* Balance criticism with positive feedback. Just because you absolutely hate what a PR is trying to accomplish doesn't mean you can't find something good in it. Scathing criticisms are only going to antagonize the author, as well as anyone who actually really liked that PR.

* Use @ mentions sparingly. Use it if you're trying to get the attention of people not involved with the PR, if you're writing a PR yourself and want to credit someone else's work, or if someone hasn't responded to your review request or other comments in a while.

* You don't have to have an opinion on everything. Express your opinions, but only when doing so will actual accomplish something productive.

* Be creative: Your role as a reviewer is not to be Grammarly. To be sure, you should definitely catch out any grammar mistakes you can find, but you should also give constructive suggestions. Don't be afraid to tweak the content of a paragraph to make it flow better. If it doesn't fit what the author is going for, they don't have to use your suggestion. But a suggestion is always better than a "fix this."
```

Reviewer 4: I feel like this is info that is more relevant here on Github, while the contributing file is help familiarize people with contributing overall, not reviewing contributions. It might be a lot of overwhelming information to put all in one file in the game to try and explain [all] things that are otherwise done here.

Author: Yeah, this does feel a little much for the contributing doc, which as Saugia said is more of an introduction to contributing rather than an exhaustive guide.
However, I definitely think we should have some sort of guide to reviewing up on our wiki somewhere. You could add this in a PR to https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky-wiki instead.

Reviewer 3: Thanks for the feedback! So it sounds like just the first line mentioning PR reviews is more appropriate here, and I just made [a wiki page with the fuller list](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky-wiki/pull/95) to eventually link to.

```suggestion
If you have opened a new feature pull request during a stable release development cycle, it is unlikely to be merged until the stable release is finished. Similarly, if you open a large pull request toward the end of an unstable release, it will likely have to wait until the next unstable release development cycle has begun before people will begin reviewing it and it has a chance to be merged. This is because the time it would take to appropriately review the pull request is longer than the time until the next release, and Developers and Reviewers near the end of a release cycle are often focused on a priority list determined in advance closer to the release date.

### Reviewing a pull request

Reviewing pull requests is an important part of maintaining Endless Sky and the main way that new content is ultimately added to the game. Your feedback helps contributors improve their work and ensures that new content is the best it can be.
```

> # Contributing to Endless Sky

Reviewer 3: Reading through this again, I feel that it's missing a small intro & "general contributing" blurb at the top for things applicable to any contribution. Right now, some of those resources are spread across the subtopics or missing, so a reader would miss the Discord info if they were only looking at how to post issues and would miss info on Steam's discussion rooms entirely for example.

I essentially just copied over the contributing paragraph from the `readme` here and added a little welcome sentence:
```suggestion
# Contributing to Endless Sky

As a free and open source game, Endless Sky is the product of many people's work. Contributions of artwork, storylines, and other writing are most in-demand, though there is a loosely defined [roadmap](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/wiki/DevelopmentRoadmap). Those who wish to contribute are encouraged to review the [wiki](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/wiki), and to post in the [community-run Discord](https://discord.gg/ZeuASSx) beforehand. Those who prefer to use Steam can use its [discussion rooms](https://steamcommunity.com/app/404410/discussions/) as well, or GitHub's [discussion zone](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/discussions). 

We are always excited to welcome new contributors! Below are some guidelines and resources to help get involved.
```

* During the development of an unstable release, any type of pull request is up for merging. Unstable releases are typically developed over the course of three to four months and with odd version numbers (e.g. v0.10.1).
* During the development of a stable release, we typically only accept bug fixes and minor content tweaks. Stable releases are typically developed over the course of two to six weeks and with even version numbers (e.g. v0.10.2).

If you have opened a new feature pull request during a stable release development cycle, it is unlikely to be merged until the stable release is finished. Similarly, if you open a large pull request toward the end of an unstable release, it will likely have to wait until the next unstable release development cycle has begun before people will begin reviewing it and it has a chance to be merged. This is because the time it would take to appropriately review the pull request is longer than the time until the next release, and Developers and Reviewers near the end of a release cycle are often focused on a priority list determined in advance closer to the release date.

### Reviewing a pull request

> Reviewing pull requests is an important part of maintaining Endless Sky and the main way that new content is ultimately added to the game. Your feedback helps contributors improve their work and ensures that new content is the best it can be.

Reviewer: Might also be worth adding a link to the wiki page, assuming that gets in before this.
Also see my suggestion about removing "ultimately" to make the sentence flow better. Do you have thoughts on that?
```suggestion
Reviewing pull requests is an important part of maintaining Endless Sky and the main way that new content is added to the game. Your feedback helps contributors improve their work and ensures that new content is the best it can be.
```

# Contributing to Endless Sky

> As a free and open source game, Endless Sky is the product of many people's work. Contributions of artwork, storylines, and other writing are most in-demand, though there is a loosely defined [roadmap](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/wiki/DevelopmentRoadmap). Those who wish to contribute are encouraged to review the [wiki](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/wiki), and to post in the [community-run Discord](https://discord.gg/ZeuASSx) beforehand. Those who prefer to use Steam can use its [discussion rooms](https://steamcommunity.com/app/404410/discussions/) as well, or GitHub's [discussion zone](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/discussions). 

Reviewer: The way this last sentence is worded makes it sound like GitHub's discussion zone is for those who prefer Steam. How about:
```suggestion
As a free and open source game, Endless Sky is the product of many people's work. Contributions of artwork, storylines, and other writing are most in-demand, though there is a loosely defined [roadmap](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/wiki/DevelopmentRoadmap). Those who wish to contribute are encouraged to review the [wiki](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/wiki), and to post in the [community-run Discord](https://discord.gg/ZeuASSx) beforehand. There are also [discussion rooms](https://steamcommunity.com/app/404410/discussions/) for those who prefer to use Steam, or GitHub's [discussion zone](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/discussions). 
```

* During the development of an unstable release, any type of pull request is up for merging. Unstable releases are typically developed over the course of three to four months and with odd version numbers (e.g. v0.10.1).
* During the development of a stable release, we typically only accept bug fixes and minor content tweaks. Stable releases are typically developed over the course of two to six weeks and with even version numbers (e.g. v0.10.2).

If you have opened a new feature pull request during a stable release development cycle, it is unlikely to be merged until the stable release is finished. Similarly, if you open a large pull request toward the end of an unstable release, it will likely have to wait until the next unstable release development cycle has begun before people will begin reviewing it and it has a chance to be merged. This is because the time it would take to appropriately review the pull request is longer than the time until the next release, and Developers and Reviewers near the end of a release cycle are often focused on a priority list determined in advance closer to the release date.

### Reviewing a pull request

> Reviewing pull requests is an important part of maintaining Endless Sky and the main way that new content is added to the game. Your feedback helps contributors improve their work and ensures that new content is the best it can be.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reviewing pull requests is an important part of maintaining Endless Sky and the main way that new content is added to the game. Your feedback helps contributors improve their work and ensures that new content is the best it can be. For more information, see the [wiki page](https://github.com/endless-sky/endless-sky/wiki/ReviewingPRs).
```
Note that this link will 404 for about 8 minutes until the next hour.
